# global-stocktake-tools

The tools in this project were developed in the context of an UBA Global Stocktake project to assess and monitor collective progress toward the Paris Agreement Goals. 

The tools enable the user to explore emissions, energy and socioeconomic data to assess collective progres in a number of ways. The two key tools (1) produce histograms of averages and trends in data, and (2) examine how many countries have peaked emissions (or other variables). 


Author: Louise Jeffery  
Contact: louise.jeffery@pik-potsdam.de

Project begin: August, 2018  
Last Update: April, 2019

Copyright: **TODO!**

====================================

## Set-up and installation

The analysis can all be run using Jupyter notebooks that use the gst_tools code. Jupyter notebooks run in a browser and are easy and convenient ways to run, visualise, and document your code. Jupyter notebooks run on all platforms and can be installed following the instructions [here](https://jupyter.org/install). 

Python package requirements for running the gst-tools are:

* python-3
* pandas
* numpy
* matplotlib
* seaborn
* re, sys, os
* countrygroups



## Toolbox Description

### Data

The tools all work on country-year data in a specified csv format that is stored in the proc-data folder. The data can be formatted by the user themselves, or for the PRIMAP-hist dataset we also provide a tool for extracting the data of interest (gas, category) from the dataset version available online (see prepare-PRIMAP-hist-data-for-collective-progress-plots.ipynb).

Current data available includes:  

* PRIMAP-hist dataset 
* UN population data
* ...

Pre-processed data can be stored in the input-data folder. For processed data, we recommend the following naming convention: 
source-sector-entity.csv, where source is the name of the original source of the data, sector is the sector covered (e.g. economy-wide, energy, agriculture), and entity is the main variable (e.g. CO2, energy, population). 

A second step of data processing is also possible with the calculate-indicators.ipnyb notebook. This notebook takes two pre-processed datasets and divides one by the other to generate variables such as "emissions per capita" or "GDP per capita". 

### Tools

The main tools for assessing collective progress are: 

* 'make-collective-progress-plots.ipynb'
* 'assess-peaking-emissions.ipynb'

Please see the notebooks themselves for more detailed description. 


### Output

The tools currently provide two types of output. The first, is general statistics or overviews that are written to the screen in the notebooks. The second is plots generated by the scripts. These plots are automatically saved to the 'output' folder as .pdf files. 

 
 
## Development / TODOs

### Data

* Add more datasets and example PRIMAPhist proc
* Possbile additional data to include 
	* detailed industry data?
	* detailed forestry data
* Unit handling? Easier straight out of the emissions module...
	
	
### Plots

#### coverage
Data coverage tools have also been written, but thus far not as notebooks. These are semi-standalone tools and actually use a different data format. Completely separate notebook to avoid confusion?!

The coverage plots are designed to show the extent to which a matrix of information is covered. This could be, for example, the years of data available for different gases / countries / sectors, or the number of countries that have policies in a given area (see the country factsheets). 

#### bidirectional scatter plots, with sizes?

The IPCC AR5, for example, has some scatter plots of Emissions / capita vs GDP / capita, where the dots are sized by total emissions. These plots could show more information and are quite cool, but also complex. Maybe show some examples for visualisation? Ch5 of the AR5 report is pretty nice for this!  

	
### other
* highlight a specific country within a distribution (for the factsheets)
* 

